How to make empanada dough for baking
Easy recipe with step-by-step photos and video for homemade empanada dough.
CourseAppetizer, Snack
CuisineArgentina, Ecuadorian, Latin, South American
KeywordEasy empanada recipe, Empanada dough for baking, Homemade empanada dough
Prep Time40minutes minutes
Cook Time20minutes minutes
Resting time30minutes minutes
Total Time1hour hour 15minutes minutes
Servings12 -15 medium size or 20-25 small empanada discs
AuthorLayla Pujol
Ingredients
3 cups all-purpose flour
¼ to 1/2 teaspoon salt
6 oz unsalted butter (1 stick of butter = 4 oz)
1 egg
1/4 cup to 1/2 cup of water or milk adjust as needed to obtain a soft and smooth dough
Instructions
Making homemade empanada dough:
Mix the flour and salt in a food processor.
Add the butter and pulse
Add the egg and the water or milk (in small increments) and continue pulsing until a clumpy dough forms.
To make the empanada dough by hand, follow the same instruction but use your hands to mix the ingredients together.
Split the dough into 2 large ball, flatten slightly into the shape of disks. The dough can be used immediately or refrigerated until ready to use (1-2 days max).
Roll out the dough into a thin sheet and cut out round disc shapes for empanadas (use round molds or a small plate). You can also make small individual balls with the dough and roll out each individual ball to a round shape (doesn't need to be perfectly round) - if you have a tortilla press you can use it to flatten the dough balls.
Use immediately, or store in the refrigerator/freezer to use later.
Assembling and baking the empanadas:
To assemble the empanadas or turnovers, place a spoonful of the filling on the middle of each empanada disc. The amount of filling will vary based on the size of the empanada, but in general, it’s easier to seal an empanada that isn’t overstuffed. Also, the more you make empanadas, the easier it becomes to stuff them to the max and still seal them properly.
To seal the empanadas, fold the disc and seal the edges by pressing the dough with your fingers. If you’re having a hard time sealing the edges, you can use brush the inside edges with egg white, it will act as a glue for the empanadas. You can also use a fork to help seal the edges, just press the top of the fork against the edges. To the repulgue or churito, the curl type seal, use your fingers to twist the curl the edges. There are also empanada molds that you can buy and will help seal the empanadas.
For best results, I recommend refrigerating for at least 30 minutes the empanadas before baking – this also helps them seal better and prevents the filling from leaking out.
If you want your empanadas to have a nice golden finish, then you can brush them with egg wash (a whole egg whisked or egg yolk plus a few drops of water whisked).
Bake the empanadas in a pre-heated oven. I usually bake them at 375F-400F, the temperature will vary based on the oven and the size of the empanadas. I bake the smaller sized empanadas at 375F. The baking time also varies (again based on the oven and size), but it’s in the range of 18-25 minutes – the empanadas will be ready once they are golden.
How to make empanada dough for baking https://www.laylita.com/recipes/how-to-make-empanada-dough/

©LAYLITA.COM 2025, ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
